# Gcode Post-Processor
This is a post-processor for the gcode generated by the slicer. It is written in Python but an executable is also 
available for Windows (MacOS and Linux have a version pf python3 installed by default). 

The post-processor is used to easily add the necessary spool data into the gcode if you don't want to have a different 
profile for each spool of filament you have, but still want to use the spool checking feature available in the plugin.

## Usage

### Windows
Download the postprocessor.zip file found in the release.
Unzip the folder and double click the <code>setup-postprocessor-exe.bat</code> file if you are going to run use the provided exe or 
<code>setup-postprocessor-python.bat</code> if you plan on running the python code.

Copy the output and paste it into the post processor part of the slicer settings (found under print settings/output options in Prusa slicer).

From now on, use either the provided nvfPostprocessor.exe or the python script to edit the spool settings
(editing the spool names to include in the gcode).

When exporting the gcode, a window will pop up asking you to confirm the current settings. 
If you are happy with the settings, click ok, otherwise edit the spools until they are correct.

### Mac and Linux
*We will need the terminal for this, I promise it isn't too bad, and you will be guided through it*

First download the postprocessor.zip file found in the release. 

Unzip the folder and navigate to the folder in the terminal 

- For gnome, open the folder in nautilus and right-click and select open in terminal.
- For mac, open the folder one level below the folder and right-click the folder and select new terminal at folder.
- Alternatively, open the terminal and use cd to get to the directory 

Then run the Following command: <code>sh setup_postprocessor.sh</code>.

Copy the output and paste it into the post-processor part of the slicer settings
(found under print settings/output options in Prusa slicer).

For Mac users, we are all done with the terminal now.

From now on,
use either the provided spoolEditor application bundle (macOS)
or the python script (either OS) to edit the spool settings
(editing the spool names to include in the gcode).

(there is no executable for linux since there are so many different distros and desktop environments, but the python script should work just fine)

When exporting the gcode, a window will pop up asking you to confirm the current settings. 
If you are happy with the settings, click ok, otherwise edit the spools until they are correct.